Add blog article on writing labelling controller (#27010)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-XX-XX-writing-an-operator-for-pod-labels.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Writing an Operator for Pod Labels"
date: 2021-03-XX
slug: writing-an-operator-for-pod-labels
---

> **Authors**: Arthur Busser, Site Reliability Engineer, Padok

Author: Removed 👍

> [Operators][what-is-an-operator] are proving to be an excellent solution to

Reviewer: I'd link to our documentation on the operator pattern:
```suggestion
[Operators](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) are proving to be an excellent solution to
```

Author: Corrected 👍

running stateful distributed applications in Kubernetes. Open Source tools like
the [Operator SDK][operator-sdk] provide ways to build reliable and maintainable
operators, and extending Kubernetes to implement custom scheduling needs is now
easier than ever.

This post will walk you through writing a Kubernetes operator in Go. The
operator will add a `pod-name` label to Pods that have a specific annotation.

## Why do we need an operator for this?

Kubernetes operators run complex software inside your cluster. The open-source
community has already built [many operators][operatorhub] for distributed
applications like Prometheus, ElasticSearch, or ArgoCD. Even outside of
open-source, operators can help to bring new functionality to your Kubernetes
cluster.

I recently worked on a project where we needed to create a Service that routed
traffic to a specific Pod in a ReplicaSet. The problem is that a Service can
only select Pods by label, and all pods in a ReplicaSet have the same labels.
How could we add a label to these pods with a unique value for each? The answer
is: with an operator.

> 

Reviewer: You might want to talk about the alternative: create a Service without a selector, and manage the EndpointSlices (or Endpoints) for that Service directly. You would still need to write a controller to make that possible.

Author: Done 👍
